Word Definitions

Texting: Texting enables instant real-time communication between two or more people.

Social Media: Social media consists of interactive websites where people and communities create and share user-generated content with friends, family, peers, and the world.

Collaberation Tools:  Without the constraints of location or time zone, collaboration tools allow individuals to communicate with each other, often across real-time interactive video. The broad distribution of data networks means that people in remote locations can contribute on an equal basis with people in the heart of large population centers.

Blogs: Blogs are an abbreviation of the word “weblogs”, are web pages that are easy to update and edit. Unlike commercial websites, blogs give anyone a means to communicate their thoughts to a global audience without technical knowledge of web design.

Wikis: Wikis are web pages that groups of people can edit and view together. Whereas a blog is more of an individual, personal journal, a wiki is a group creation. As such, it may be subject to more extensive review and editing. 

Podcasting: Podcasting allows people to deliver their audio recordings to a wide audience. The audio file is placed on a website (or blog or wiki) where others can download it and play the recording on their computers, laptops, and other mobile devices. 

Peer-to-Peer (P2P) File Sharing: Peer-to-Peer file sharing allows people to share files with each other without having to store and download them from a central server. The user joins the P2P network by simply installing the P2P software. 

File Client and Server: File server stores corporate and user files in a central location. The client devices access these files with client software such as Windows Explorer.

Web Client and Server: Web Server runs server software and clients use their browser software to access the web pages on the server.

Email Client and Server: Email Server runs email server software and clients use their mail client software to access email on the server

End Devices: An end device is either the source or destination of a message transmitted over a network.

Metallic wires within cables: Data is encoded into electrical impulses.

Glass or plastic fibers (fiber optic cable): Data is encoded as pulses of light.

Wireless transmission: Data is encoded using wavelengths from the electromagnetic spectrum.

Network Interface Card: A NIC, or LAN adapter, provides the physical connection to the network at the PC or other end device. 

Physical Port: A connector or outlet on a networking device where the media is connected to an end device or another networking device.

Interface: Specialized ports on a networking device that connect to individual networks.

Physical topology diagrams:  Identify the physical location of intermediary devices and cable installation.

Logical topology diagrams: Identify devices, ports, and addressing scheme. 

Local Area Network (LAN): A network infrastructure that provides access to users and end devices in a small geographical area.

Wide Area Network (WAN):  A network infrastructure that provides access to other networks over a wide geographical area.

Metropolitan Area Network (MAN): A network infrastructure that spans a physical area larger than a LAN but smaller than a WAN.

Wireless LAN (WLAN): Similar to a LAN but wirelessly interconnects users and end points in a small geographical area.

Storage Area Network (SAN): A network infrastructure designed to support file servers and provide data storage, retrieval, and replication.

Cable: The Internet data signal is carried on the same cable that delivers cable television. It provides a high bandwidth, always on, connection to the Internet.

DSL: Digital Subscriber Lines provide a high bandwidth, always on, connection to the Internet. DSL runs over a telephone line.

Cellular: Cellular Internet access uses a cell phone network to connect. Wherever you can get a cellular signal, you can get cellular Internet access. Performance will be limited by the capabilities of the phone and the cell tower to which it is connected.

Satellite: The availability of satellite Internet access is a real benefit in those areas that would otherwise have no Internet connectivity at all. Satellite dishes require a clear line of sight to the satellite.

Dial-up Telephone: An inexpensive option that uses any phone line and a modem.

Dedicated Leased Line: Leased lines are actually reserved circuits within the service provider’s network that connect geographically separated offices for private voice and/or data networking.

Ethernet WAN: Ethernet WANs extend LAN access technology into the WAN.

Converging Network: converged networks are capable of delivering data, voice, and video between many different types of devices over the same network infrastructure.

Fault Tolerance: Fault tolerant network is one that limits the impact of a failure, so that the fewest number of devices are affected.

Scalability: Scalable network can expand quickly to support new users and applications without impacting the performance of the service being delivered to existing users.

Quality of Service (QoS): QoS becomes a primary mechanism for managing congestion and ensuring reliable delivery of content to all users.

Security: Protecting the information contained within the packets being transmitted over the network and the information stored on network attached devices.

Confidentiality: Data confidentiality means that only the intended and authorized recipients can access and read data.

Integrity:  Data integrity means having the assurance that the information has not been altered in transmission, from origin to destination.

Availability: Data availability means having the assurance of timely and reliable access to data services for authorized users.

Bring Your Own Device(BYOD): BYOD is about end users having the freedom to use personal tools to access information and communicate across a business or campus network.

Online Collaboration: The act of working with another or others on a joint project over an online session.

Video Communication: It is where people can connect to one another through the use of video calls.

Custom Cloud: A cloud that an individual or organizations can change to their choice.

Public Cloud: A cloud that is available to everyone but can only be change by the public government holding it.

Private Cloud:A cloud that can only be accessed and changed by the individual or organization that owns it.

Hybrid Cloud: A server that is made up of two or more clouds with each being a distinced object but are all connected using a single archetecture.

Smart Home Technology: Smart home technology is technology that is integrated into every-day appliances allowing them to interconnect with other devices, making them more ‘smart’ or automated.

Powerline Networking: It is multiple WiFi broadcasters connected together by powerlines to help increase the range the WiFi in the building.

Wireless Internet Service Provider (WISP): An ISP that connects subscribers to a designated access point or hot spot using similar wireless technologies found in home wireless local area networks (WLANs).

Wireless BroadBand Service: The same way as WISP but for smart phones and tablets.

Viruses, worms, and trojan horses: malicious software and arbitrary code running on a user device.

Spyware and adware:  software installed on a user device that secretly collects information about the user.

Zero-day attacks, also called zero-hour attacks: an attack that occurs on the first day that a vulnerability becomes known.

Hacker attacks: an attack by a knowledgeable person to user devices or network resources.

Denial of service attacks: attacks designed to slow or crash applications and processes on a network device.

Data interception and theft: an attack to capture private information from an organization’s network.

Identity theft: an attack to steal the login credentials of a user in order to access private data.

Antivirus and antispyware: These are used to protect end devices from becoming infected with malicious software.

Firewall filtering: This is used to block unauthorized access to the network. This may include a host-based firewall system that is implemented to prevent unauthorized access to the end device, or a basic filtering service on the home router to prevent unauthorized access from the outside world into the network.

Dedicated firewall systems: These are used to provide more advanced firewall capabilities that can filter large amounts of traffic with more granularity.

Access control lists (ACL): These are used to further filter access and traffic forwarding.

Intrusion prevention systems (IPS): These are used to identify fast-spreading threats, such as zero-day or zero-hour attacks.

Virtual private networks (VPN): These are used to provide secure access to remote workers.

