Words and Definitions:

	Intermediate Device: A device passing network traffic and connecting different networks.

	Device Capacity: The port density, processing, and memory capacity of a device.

	Redundancy: The duplication of devices, links, or technologies to increase high availability.

	Modular: A feature that allows add-in capabilities/technologies to a device without the need to purchase a whole new device.

	Vunerability: A weakness or flaw that can allow an attacker to gain access to a system.

	Malware: Unwanted malicious software that can harm or disrupt a system operation.

	Virus: A type of malicious software that requires user to spread the softare through the network.

	Worm: A type of malicious software that uses the network to spread the software and infect vunerable systems.

	Trojan Horse: Hidden or disguised software that installs with another software package that a user requested.

	AAA: A framework that is used to implement authentication,Authorization, and accounting functions into network operations.

	Packet Filtering: The ability to perform packet inspection at Layer 3 based on the source and destination IP addresses and source and destination port numbers.

	Application Filtering: The ability to filter traffic based on destination port numbers.

	URL Filtering: The ability to filer traffic based on a web address.

	Stateful Packet Inspection: The ability of a device to track TCP connections and only allow returning data to the inside connection.

Device Selection for a Small Network:

	Cost: The cost of a switch or router is determined by its capacity and features. The device capability includes the number and types of ports available and the backplane speed. Other factors that impact the cost are the network management capabilities, embedded security technologies, and optional advanced switching technologies. The expense of cable runs required to connect every device on the network must also be considered. Another key element affecting cost is the amout of redundancy to incorporate into the network.

	Speed and Types of Ports/Interfaces: Choosing the number and types of ports on a router or switch is a critical decision. Newer computers have built-in 1 Gb/s NICs. 10 Gb/s ports are already included with some workstations and servers. While it is more expensive, choosing Layer 2 devices that can accommodate increased speeds allows the network to evolve without replacing central devices.

	Expandability: Networking Devices come in both fixed and modular phyiscal configurations. Fixed configurations have a specific number and type of ports or interface. Modular devices have epansion slots that provide the flexability to add new moduales as requirements evolve. Switches are available with additional ports for high-speed uplinks. Routers can be used to connect different types of networks. Care must be taken to select the appropriate  modules and interfaces for the specific media.

	Operating System Features and Services:

		-Security
		-Quality of Service
		-Voice over IP
		-Layer 3 switching
		-Network Address Translation
		-Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

Redundancy in a Small Network:

	Data Center: If one server fails, another is there to hadle cusm=tomer requests.

	Links: If the link to one switch fails, the link to the second switch is still available.

	Switches: Redundant switches are present to avoid a switching failure.

	Routers: Router redundancy can help to ensure that application transactions received from external traffic can be handled in the event of a router failer.

Common Applications:

	Network Applications: Applications are the software programs used to communicate over the network. Some end-user applications are network-aware, meaning that they implement application layer protocols and are able to communicate directly with the lower layers of the protocol stack. Email clients and web browsers are examples of this type of application.

	Application Layer Services: Other programs may need the assistance of application laer services to use network resources like file transfer or networking print spooling. Through transparent to an employee, these services are the programs that interface with the network and prepare the data for transfer. Different types of data, wether text, graphics or video, require different network services to ensure that they are properly prepared for processing by the functions occuring at the lower layer of the OSI model.

Common Protocols:

	Domain Name Server: Service that provides the IP address of a web site or domain name so a host can connect to it.

	SSH Server: Service that allows administrator to log in to a host from a remote location and control the host as though they were logged in locally.

	Email Server:
		-Uses Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, Post Office Protocol ot Internet Message Access Protocol.
		-Used to send email messages from client to server over the internet.
		-Recipients are specified using the user@xyz format.

	Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol Server: Service that assigns an IP address, subnet mask, default gateway and other information to clients.

	Web Server:
		-Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
		-Used to transfer information between web clients and web servers.
		-Most web pages are accessed using HTTP.

	File Transfer Protocol Server: Service that allows for download and upload of files between a client and server.

Voice and Video Applications:

	Infrastructure: To support the existing and proposed real-time applications, the infrastructure must accommodate the  characteristics of each type of traffic. The network designer must determine wether the existing switches and cable can support the traffic that will be added to the network.

	VoIP: VoIP devices convert analog into dialog IP packets. The device could be an analog telephone adapter that is attached between a traditional analog phone and the Etherent switch. After the signals are converted into IP packets, the router sends those packets between corresponding locations. VoIP is much less expensive than an integrated IP telephony solution, but the quality of communication does not meet the same standards. Voice and video over IP solutions for small businesses can be realized.

	IP Telephony: In IP telephony, the IP phone itself performs voice-to-IP conversion. Voice-enabled routers are not required within a network with an integrated IP telephony solution. IP phone use a dedicated server for call control and signaling. There are now many vendors with dedicated IP telephony solutions for small networks.

	Real-time Applications: To transport streaming media effectively, the network must be able to support applications that require delay-sensitive delivery. Real-Time Transport Protocol and Real-Time Control Protocol are two protocols that support this requirement. RTP and RTCP enable control and scalability of the network resources by allowing Quality of Service mechanisms to be incorperated. These QoS mechanisms provide valuable tools for minimizing latency issues for real-time streaming applications.

Small Network Growth:

	Network documentation: physical and logical topology.

	Device Inventory: list of devices that use or comprise the network.

	Budget: Itemized IT budget, includeing fisical year equipment purchasing budget.

	Traffic analysis: Protocols, applications, and services and their respective traffic requirements, should be documented.

Types of Threats:

	Information Theft: This is breaking into a  computer to obtain confidential information. Information can be used or sold for various purposes.

	Data Loss and Manipulation: This is breaking into a computer to destroy or alter data records.

	Identity Theft: This is a form of information theft where personal information is stolen for the purpose of taking over someone's identity. Using this information, an individual can obtain legal documents, apply for credit, and make unauthorized online purchases. Identity theft is a growing problem costing billions of dollars per year.

	Disruption of Service: This is preventing legitimate users from accessing services to which they should be entitled.

Physical Security:

	Hardware Threats: physical damage to servers, routers, switches, cabling plant, and workstations.

	Enviromental Threats: Tempurature extremes (too hot or too cold) or humidity extremes (too wet or too dry).

	Electrical Threats: voltage spikes, insufficient supply voltage, unconditioned power, and total power loss.

	Maintenance Threats: Poor handling of key electrical componects, lack of critical spare parts, poor cabling, and poor labeling.

Types of Vunerabilities:

	Technology:
		TCP/IP Protocl Weakness:
			-Hypertext Transfer Protocol, File Transfer Protocl, and Internet Message Protocol and inherently insecure.
			-Simple Network Management Protocol and Simple Mail Transfer Protocol are related to the inherently insecure structure upon which TCP are designed.

		Operating System Weakness:
			-Each operating system has security problems that must be addressed.
			-UNIX, Linux, MAC OS, MAC OS X, Windows Server 2012, Windows 7, Windows 8.
			- They are documented in the Computer Emergency Response Team.

		Network Equipement Weakness: Various types of network equipement, such as routers, firewalls, and switchs have security weaknesses that must be recognized and protected against. Their weaknesses include password protection, lack of authentication, routing protocol, and firewall holes.

	Configuration:
		Unsecure user accounts: User account information may be transmitted insecurely acress the network, exposing usernames and passwords to snoopers.

		System accounts with easily guessed passwords: This common problem is the result of poorly selected and easily guessed user passwords.

		Misconfigured Internet services: A common problem is to turn on JavaScript in browsers, enabling attacks by a way of hostile JavaScript when accessing untrusted sites. Other potential sources of weakness include misconfigured terminal services, FTP, or Web servers.

		Unselected default settings within products: Many products have default settings that enable security holes.

		Misconfigured network equipement: Misconfigurations of the equipemnet itself can cause significant security problems.

	Policy:
		Lack of written security policy: An unwritten policy cannot be consistently applied or enforced.

		Politics: Political battales and turf wars can make it difficult to implement a consistent security problem.

		Lack of authentication continuity: Poorly chosen, easily cracked, or default passwords can allow unauthorized access to the network.

		Logical access control not applied: Inadequate monitoring and auditing allow attacks and unauthorized use to continue, wasting company resources. THis could result in legal action or terminate against IT technicians, IT management, or even comapny leadership that allows these unsafe conditions to persist.

		Software and hardware installation and changes do not follow policy: Unauthorized changes to the network topology or installation of unapproved application create security holes.

		Disaster recovery plan is nonexistent: The lack of a disaster recovery plan allows chaos, panic, and confusion to occur when someone attacks the enterprise.

Types of Malware:

	Viruses: A computer virus is a type of malware that propagates by inserting a copy of itself into, and becoming part of, another program. It spreads from one computer to another, leaving infections as it travels. Viruses can range in severity from causing mildly annoying effects to damaging data or software and causing denial-of-service conditions. Almost all viruses are attached to an executable file, which means the virus may exist on a system but will not be active or able to spread until a user runs or opens the malicious host file or program. When the host code is executed, the viral code is executed as well. Normally, the host program keeps functioning after it is infected by the virus. However, some viruses spread when the software or document they are attached to is transferred from one computer to another using the network, a disk, file sharing, or infected e-mail attachments.

	Worms: Computer worms are similar to viruses in that they replicate functional copies of themselves and can cause the same type of damage. In contrast to viruses, which require the spreading of an infected host file, worms are standalone software and do not require a host program or human help to propagate. A worm does not need to attach to a program to infect a host and enter a computer through a vunerability in the system. Worms take advantage of system features to travel through the network unaided.

	Trojan Horses: A Trojan horse is another type of malware named after the wooden horse the Greeks used to infiltrae Troy. It is a harmful peice of software that looks legitamate. Users are typically tricked into loading executing it on their system. After it is activated, it can acheive any number of attacks on the hst, from irritating the user to damage the host. Trojan horses are also known to vreate back doors to give malicious users access to the system.

Reconnaissance Attacks:

	Reconnaissance attacks: The dicovery and mapping of systems, services, or vunerabilities.

	Access attacks: The unauthorized manipulation of data, system access, or user privileges.

	Denial of service: The disabling or corruption of networks, systems, or services.

Access Attacks:
	
	Password attacks:

	Trust Eploitation:

	Port Redirection:

	Man-in-the-Middle:

Denial of Service Attacks:

	DoS Attacks:

	Ping of Death:

	SYN Flood:

	DDoS:

	Smurf Attack:

Firewalls:

	Packet filtering: Prevents or allows access based on IP or MAC addresses.

	Application filtering: Prevents or allows access by specific application types based on on port numbers.

	URL filtering: Prevents or allows access to websties based on specific URLs or keywords.

	Stateful packet inspection (SPI): Incoming packets must be legitimate responses to requests from internal hosts. Unsolicited packets are blocked unless permitted specifically. SPI can also include the capability to recognize and filter out specific types of attacks.

	Cisco Security Appliances: Dedicated firewall devices are specialized computers that do not have peripherals or hard drives. Appliances-based firewalls can inspect traffic faster and are less prone to failure.

	Server-Based Firewall: Most home integrated routers have built-in basic firewall capabilities that support packet, application, and web site filtering. Higher-end routers that	run special operating systems like Cisco Interwork Operating System also have firewall capabilities that can be configured.

	Cisco Wireless Broadband Router and Integrated Firewall: Client-side firewalls that typically filter using SPI. The user may be prompted to allow certain applications to connect or may define a list of automatic exceptions. Personal firewalls are often firewalls are often used when a host device is connected directly to an ISP medem. It may interfere with internet access if not properly configured. It is not recommended to use more than one personal firewall at a time since they can conflict with one another.

	Personal Firewall: Firewall applications that generally provide a solution that combines an SPI firewall and access control based on IP address or applications. Server-based firewalls can be less occure than dedicated, application-based firewalls because of the security weakness of the general purpose OS.

Enable SSH:

	Step 1: Ensure that the router has a unique hostname, and then configure the IP domain name of the network using the ip domain-name command in global configuration mode.

	Step 2: One way secret keys must be generated for a router to encrypt SSH traffic. To generate the SSH key, use the crypto key generate rsa gneral-keys command in global configuration mode. The specific meanings of the various parts of the command are complex and out of scope for this course. Just note that the modulus determine the size of the key and can be configured from 360 bits to 2040 bits. The larger the modulus, the more secure the key, but the longer it takes to encrypt and decrypt information. The minimum recommended modulus length is 1024 bits.

	Step 3: Create a local database username entry using the username global configuration command.

	Step 4: Enable inbound SSH sessions using the line vty commands login local and transport input ssh.

Interpreting Ping Results:

	IOS Ping Indicators: A ping issue from the IOS will yeild one of several indications for each ICMP echo request that was sent. The most common idicates are:
		-!: Indicates receipt of an ICMP echo reply message.
		-.: Indicates a time expired while waiting for an ICMP echo reply message.
		-U: An ICMP enreachable message received.

	Testing the Loopback: The ping command can also be used to verify the internet IP configuration on the local host by pinging the loopback address, 127.0.0.1. This versifies the proper operation of the protocol stack from the network layer to the physical layer, and back, without actually putting a signal on the media.

Extended Traceroute:

	Prtocol [ip]: Prompts for a supported protocol. The default is IPv4.

	Targeted IP address: You must name or an IPv4 address. There is no default.

	Source address: The interface or IPv4 address of the router to use as a source address for the probes. The router normally picks the IPv4 address of the outbound interface to use.

	Numeric display [n]: The default is to have both a symbolic and numeric display; however, you can suppress the sybolic display.

	Timeout in seconds [3]: The number of seconds to wait for a response to a probe packet. The default is 3 seconds.

	Probe count [3]: The number of probes to be sent at each TTL level. The default count is 3.

	Minimum Time to Live [1]: The TTL value for the first probes. The default is 1, but it can be set to a higher value to suppress the display of known hops.

	Maximum Time to Live [30]: The Largest TTL value can be used. The default is 30. The traceroute command terminates when the destination is reached or when this value is reached.

	Port Number [33434]: The desttination port used by the UDP probe message. The default is 33434.

	Loose, Strict, Record, Timestamp, Verbose [none]: IP header options. You can specify any combination. The traceroute command issues prompts for the required feilds. Note That 	the traceroute commands will place the requested options in each probe; however, there is no guarantee that all routers (or end nodes) will process the options.

Common show Commands Revisited:

	show running-config:

	show interfaces:

	show arp:

	show ip route:

	show ip protocols:

	show version:

The show cdp neighbors Command:

	Device Identifiers: For example, the configured host name of a switch.

	Address list: Up to one network layer address for each protocol supported.

	Port Identifier: The name of the local and remote port in the form of an ASCII character string, such as FastEthernet 0/0.

	Capabilities list: For example, wether this device is a router or a switch.

	Platform: The hardwareplatform of the device; for example, a Cisco 1841 series router.

The show ip interface breif Command:

	Verify Router Interfaces: One of the most frequently used commands is show ip interface breif command. This command provides a more abbreviated output than the show ip interface command. It provides a summary of the key information for all the network interfaces on a router.

	Verify the Switch Interface: The show ip interface breif command can also be used to verify the status of the switch interfaces. The VLAN1 interface is assigned an IPv4 address of 192.168.254.250 and has been enabled, and is operational.

Basic Troubleshooting Approaches:

	Step 1:
		-Identify the Problem: The first step in the troubleshooting process is to identify the problem. While tools can be used in this step, a conversation with the user is often very helpful.

	Step 2:
		-Establish a Theory of Probable Causes: After you have talked to the user and identified the problem, you can try and establish a theory of probable causes. This step often yeilds more than a few probable causes to the problem.

	Step 3:
		-Test the Theory to Determine Causes: Based on the probable causes, test your theories to determine which one is the cause of the problem. A technician will often apply a quick procedure to test and see if it solves the problem. If a quick procedure does not correct the problem, you might need to research the problem further to establish the exact cause.

	Step 4:
		-Establish a Plan of Action to Resolve the Problem and Implement the Solution: After you have determined the exact cause of the problem, establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the solution.

	Step 5:
		-Verify Full System Functionality and Implement Preventive Measures: After you have corrected the problem, verify full functionality and, if applicable, implement preventive measures.

	Step 6:
		-Document Findings, Actions, and Outcomes: In the final step of the troubleshooting process, document your findings, actions, and outcomes. This is very important for future references.

