Words Definitions:

Cisco IOS: Term that represents the operating systems used by Cisco networking devices.

Shell: Portion of operating system that interacts with applications and the user.

Kernel: Portion of operating system that interfaces directly with computer hardware.

GUI: A user-friendly interface thatprovides an interface between a user and an OS through a graphical environment.

Console: A physical port of a Cisco device that provides access to the device via a dedicated management channel, also known as out-of-band access.

Keyword: Parameter with a predefined value to be used by an IOS command.

Argument: Parameter that has to be supplied by the user to an IOS command.

Startup Configuration: File that is stored in NVRAM and that contains the configuration that has been saved on a device to be used upon startup or reboot.

Running Configuration: File that is stored in RAM and that contains the configuration that is being done on a device.

SVI: A logical interface used to remotely manage a switch over an IPv4 network.

SSH: A protocaol to establish a remote secure CLI connection over the network.

Ping: Command to verify connectivity between the source (the device where the command is issue) and the destination (IP address used as argument).

Traceroute: Command to check the path that a packet takes to reach a destination.

ipconfig: Windows command that shows the IP configuration settings on a PC.

DHCP: A protocol that dynamically leases IPv4 addresses to DHCP-enabled end devices.

Telnet:  A insecure method of remotely establishing a CLI session through a virtual interface, over a network.

User EXEC Mode: Mode allows access to only a limited number of basic monitoring commands. It is often referred to as "view-only" mode.

Priviledged EXEC Mode: Mode allows access to all commands and features. The user can use any monitoring commands and exicute configuration and management commands.

Line Configuration Mode: Used to configer console, SSH, Telnet, or AUX access.

Interface Configuration Mode: Used to confiure a switch port or route network interface

Keyword: A specific parameter defined in the operating system (Ip protocols).

Argument: Not predefined in the variable defined by the user (192.168.10.5).

Ping ip-address: The command is ping and the user-defined argument is the ip-address of the destination device.(ping 10.10.10.5).

Traceroute ip-address: The command is traceroute and the user-defined argument is the ip-address of the destination device.(192.168.254.254).

Startup-config: The file stored in Non-volatile Random Access Memory (NVRAM) that contains all of the commands that will be used by the device upon startup or reboot. NVRAM does not lose its contents when the device is powered off.

Running-config: The file stored in the Random Access Memory (RAM) that reflects the current configuration. Modifying a running configuration affects the operation of a Cisco device immediately. It loses all of its content when the device is powered off or restarted.

