Wors and Definitions:

Encoding: Process of modifying data to an acceptable format for transmission.

Decoding: Process of modifying transmitted data into a formatthat is usable by a device.

Encapsulation: Process of inserting a formatted message inside another formatted message.

Segmentation: Process of splitting data into smaller peices for transmission on a network.

De-encapsulation: Process of removing a formatted message from another formatted message.

Unicast: A form of message delivery in which a message is delivered to a single destination.

Multicast: A form of transmission in which a message is delivered to a group of hosts.

Broadcast: A form of trasnmission in which a message is delivered to all hosts on a network.

Open standards: Refer to protocols that are available to the public at no cost.

Proprietary: Refers to protocols that are developed by companies and are available to the public for purchase.

PDU: The form of a peice of data that is associated with each protocol layer.

Default gateway: A router is responsible for redirecting the packets it receives to their destination.

HTTP: An application protocol for distributed, collaborative, and hypermedia information systems. HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web.

TCP:  One of the main protocols of the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol.

IP: A numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.

Ethernet:  a family of computer networking technologies commonly used in local area networks, metropolitan area networks and wide area networks.

Access Method: A function of a mainfram operating system that enable access to data on disk, tape or other external devices.

Flow Control: The process of managing the rate of data transmission between two nodes to prevent a fast sender from overwhelming a slow receiver.

Response Timeout:

Unicast: Transmission of a data package or an audiovisual signal to a single recipient.

Multicast: Transmission of a data package or an audiovisual signal to a group of recipients.

Braodcast: Transmission of a data package or and audiovisual signal to a group of recipients over an entier network.

TCP/IP Model:

	Application: Data to the user, plus encoding and dialog control.

	Transport: Supports communication between various devices across diverse networks.

	Internet: Determines the best path through the network.

	Network Access:Controls the hardware devices and media that make up the network.

Internet Society (ISOC): Responsible for promoting the open development and evolution of internet use throughout the world.

Internet Architecture Board (IAB): Responsible for the overall managment and development of internet standards.

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF): Develops, updates, and maintains internet and TCP/IP technologies. This includes the process and documents for developing new protocols and updating exitisting protocols know as Request for Comments (RFC) documents.

Internet Engineering Task Force (IRTF): Focused on long-term research related to internet and TCP/IP protocols such as Anti-Spam Research Group (ASRG), Crypto Forum Research Group (CFRG), and Peer-to-Peer Research Group (P2PRD).

Internet Corporation for Assinged Names and Numbers (ICANN): Coordinates IP address allocation, the managment of domain names, and assignment of other information used TCP/IP protocols.

Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA): Responsile for overseeing and managing IP address allocation, domain name managment, and protocol identifiers for ICANN.

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE): Organization of electrical engineering and electronics dedicated to advancing technological innovation and creating standards in a wide area of industries including power and energy healthcare, telecommunications, and networking.

Electronic Industies Alliance (EIA): Best known for its standards related to electrical wiring, connectors, an the 19-inch racks used to mount networking equipment.

Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA): Responsible for developing communication standards in a variety of areas including radio equipment, cellular towers, Voice over IP (VoIP) devices, satellite communications, and more.

International Telecommunications Union-Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T): One of the largest and oldest communication standard organizations. The ITU-T defines standards for video compression, Internet Protocol Televison (IPTV), and broadband communications, such as a digital subscriber line (DSL).

Protocol Model: A model that closely matches the structure of a particular protocol suite.

Reference Model: A model that provides consistency within all types of network protocols and services by describing what has to be done at a particular layer, but not prescribing how it should be accomplished.

OSI Model:
	
	Application: Contains protocols used for process-to-process communication.

	Presentation: provides for common representation of the data transferred between application layer sefvices.

	Session: Provides services to the presentation layer to organize its dialogue and to manage data exchange.

	Transport: Defines services to segment, transfer, and reassemble the data for individual communications between the end devices.

	Network:Provides services to exchange the individual peices of the data over the network between identified end devices.

	Data Link: Protocols describe methods for exchanging data frames between devices over a common media.

	Physical: Describes the mechanical, electical, functional, and procedural means to activate, maintain, and de-activate connectors for bit transmission to and from a network device.

Encapsulation:
	
	 Data: The general term for PDU used at the application layer.

	Segment: Transport layer PDU.

	Packet: Network layer PDU.

	Frame (medium dependent): Data link layer PDU.

	Bits: A physical layer PDU used when physically transmitting data over the medium.

Network layer source and destination addresses: Responsible for delivering the IP packet from the original source to the final destination, either on the same network or to a remote network.

Data link layer source and destination addresses: Responsible for delivering the data link frame from one network interface card (NIC) to another NIC on the same network.

Source IP address: The IP address of the sending device, the original source of the packet.

Destination IP address: The IP address of the receiving device, the final destination of the packet.

Source data link address: The physical address of the device's NIC that is sending the dat link frame.

Destination data linkk address: The physical address of the NIC that is receiving the dat link frame.

Network portion: The left-most part of the address that indicates which network the IP address is a member

Host portion: The remaining part of the address that identifies a specific device on the network.

Source MAC address: This is the data link address, or the Ethernet MAC address, of the device that sends the data link frame with the encapsulated IP packet.

Destination MAC address: When the receiving device is on the same network as the sending device, this is the data link address of the receiving device.