Words and Definitions:

	Organizationally Unique Identifier: A three-byte code that is assigned by IEEE to identify the vendor of a NIC.

	Unicast: A message that is sent from a single sender to a single recipient.

	Broadcast: A message that is sent from a single sender to all recipients.

	Multicast: A message that is sent from a single sender to a group of recipients - more that one, nut not all.

	Physical address: A Layer 2 address that allows NICs to communicate with each other.

	Logical address: A Layer 3 address that identifies both the network and the specific host on that network.

	Address Resolution Protocol: The process that is used to find a Layer 2 address when a Layer 3 address is known.

	Auto-MDIX: A feature that detects the type of cable, and configures the interface to allow the connection.

	Store-and-forward Switching: A switching method that receives the entire frame before forwarding.

	Cut-through switching: A switching method that begins the forwarding process as soon as enough information has been recieved to make a forwarding decision.

	Fastforwarding switching: A cut-through switching method that begins to forward data as soon as the destination address has been received.

	Fragment-free switching: A cut=through switching method that begins to forward data after receipt of the first 64 bytes of a frame.

Ethernet Encapsulation:

	LLC sublayers: Handles the communication between the upper layers and the lower layers. Takes the network protocol data and adds control information to help deliver the packet to the destination node.

	MAC sublayer: Implemented by hardware, typically in the computer NIC. the specifics are listed in the IEEE 802.3 standards.

MAC Sublayer:

	Data Encapsulation: The process includes grame assembly before transmission, and the frame disassembly upon reception of a frame.

		Frame delimiting: The framing process provides important delimiters that are used to identify a group of bits that make up a frame.

		Addressing: The encapsulation process contains the Layer 3 PDU and also provides for data link layer addressing.

		Error detection: Each frame contains a trailer used to detect any errors in transmission.

	Media Access Control: Responsible for the placement of frames on the media and the removal of frames from the media.

Ethernet Frame Feilds:

	Preamble: Used for synchroniztation between the sending and receiving device. The first 8 bytes of the frame are used to get the attention of the receiving nodes.

	Destination MAC Address: Used by layer 2 to assist devices in determining if a frame is addressed to them.

	Source MAC Address: Identifies the frame's original NIC or interface. Must be a unicast address.

	EtherType: identifies the upper layer protocol encapsulated in the Ethernet frame.

	Data: Contains the encapsulated data from a higher layer.

	Frame Check Sequence (FCS): Used to detect errors in a frame. 

MAC Address and Hexadecimal:

	Representing Hexadecimal Values: Used to represent Ethernet MAC addresses and IP version 6 addresses.

	Hexadecimal Conversations: Easier to convert the decimal or hexadecimal value to binary, and then convert the binary value to either decimal or hexadecimal as appropriate.

Cut-Through Switching:

	fast-forward switching: Lowest latency. immediately forwards packet after reading the destination address but is proun to errors occuring.

	Fragment-free switching: the switch stores the first 64 bytes of the frame to enhance fast-forward switching by performing a small error check on the first 64 bytes of the frame.

Memory Buffering on Switches:

	Port-Based Memory Buffering: I port based memory buffering, frames are stored in queues that are linked to specific incoming and outgoing ports.

	Shared Memory Buffering: Shared memor buffering deposits all frames into a common memory buffer, which all the ports on the switch share.

Duplex and Speed Settings:

	Full-duplex: Both ends of the connection can send and receive simultaneously.

	Half-duplex: Only one end of the connection can send at a time.

	Duplex Mismatch: When one port operates at half-duplex and another port operates at full-duplex.

Destination on Same Network:

	Physical Address(The MAC address): Used for Ethernet NIC to Ethernet NIC communications on the same network.

	Logical Address(The IP address): Used to send the packet from the original source to the final destination.

	Destination MAC Address: This is the MAC address of the file server's Ethernet NIC.

	Source MAC Address: This is the MAC address of the PC-A's Ethernet NIC.

	Source IP Address: This is the IP address of the original source, PC-A.

	Desintaion IP Address: This is the IP address of the final desination, the file server.

Introduction to ARP:

	Destination MAC Address: The MAC address of the Ethernet NIC, which will either the MAC address of the final destination device or the router.

	Source MAC Address: The MAC address of the sender's Ethernet NIC.

ARP Request:

	Target IPv4 address: This is the IPv4 address that requires a corresponding MAC address.

	Target MAC address: This is the unknown MAC address and will be empty in the request message.

	Destination MAC address: This is a braodcast address requiring all Ethernet NICs on the LAN to accept and process the ARP request.

	Source MAC address: This is the sender of the AR request's MAC address.

	Type: ARP messages have a type feild of 0x806. This informs the receiving NIC that the data portion of the frame needs to be passed to the ARP process.

ARP Reply:

	Sender's IPv4 address: This is the IPv4 address of the sender, the device whose MAC address was requested.

	Sender's MAC address: This is the MAC address of the sender, the MAC address needed by the sender of the ARP request.

	Destination MAC address: This is the MAC address of the sender of the ARP request.

	Source MAC address: This is the sender of the ARP reply's MAC address.

	Type: ARP message have a type feild of 0x806. this informs the receiving NIC that the data protion of the frame	needs to be passed to the ARP process.

