Words and Definitions:

	Routing: The process of sending packetsto hosts on a remote network.

	Maximum Transmisson Unit: The largest PDU that is supported.

	Time-to-Live: A value that limits the lifetime of a packet.

	Administrative Distance: The trustworthiness of a route.

	Next-hop: The destination router indicated by the outgoing interface entry in the routing table.

	RAM: Volatile memory that stores the running configuration and tables as generated by the device.

	ROM: Nonvolatile memory that contains a limited IOS and instructions for the router.

	NVRAM: Nonvolatile memory that stores the startup configuration of a device.

	Hostname: A way to identify a networking device.

	Flash: Nonvolatile memory that stores the IOS and other system files.

	Connectionless: A connection does not have to be established to send data.

	In-band Configuration: Requires the establishment of a network connection to the device to be configured.

	Out-of-band Configuration: Requires a direct physical connection to the device to be configured.

	Default Gateway: A device that allows the devices on one network to communicate with devices on the other networks.

	Metric: A value that is used by a routing protocol to identify the best route to insert into a routing table.

Network Layer:

	Addressing end devices: End devices must be configured with a unique IP address for identification on the network.

	Encapsulation: The network layer encapsulates the protocol data unit from the transport layer into a packet.

	Routing: The network layer provides services to direct packets to a destination host on another network.

	De-encapsulation: When the packet arrives at the network layer of the destination host, the host checks the IP header of the packet.

Characteristics of IP:

	Connectionless: No connection with the destination is established before sending data packets.

	Best Effort: IP is inherently unreliable because packet delivery is not guaranteed.

	Media Independent: Operation is independent of the medium carrying the data.

IPv4 Packet Header:

	Version: Contains a 4-bit binary value set to 0100 that identifies this as an IP version 4 packet.

	Different Services or DiffServ (DS): The DS feild is an 8-bit feild used to determine the priority of each packet.

	Time-to-Live: Contains an 8-bit binary value that is used to limit the lifetime of the packet. The packet sender sets the initial TTL value, and it is decreased by one each time the packet is processed by a router.

	Protocol: Feild is used to identify the next level protocol. This 8-bit binary value indicates the datapayload type of the packet is carrying, which enables the network layer to pass the data to the appropriateupper-layer protocol.

	Source IPv4 Address: Contains a 32-bit binary value that represents the source IPv4 address of the packet. The source IPv4 address is always a unicast address.

	Destination IPv4 Address: Contains a 32-bit binary value that represents the destination IPv4 address of the packet. The destination IPv4 address is a unicast, multicast, or broadcast address.

Limitations of IPv4:

	IP Address Depletion: The increasing number of new IP-enabled devices and the potential growth of less-developed regions have increased the need for more addresses.

	Internet Routing Table Expansion: As the number of servers connected to the Internet increases, so too does the number of network routes. These IPv4 routes consume a great deal of memory and processor resources on Internet routers.

	Lack of end-to-end connectivity:  the public IPv4 address is shared, the IPv4 address of an internal network host is hidden. This can be problematic for technologies that require end-to-end connectivity.

Introducing IPv6:

	Increased address space: IPv6 addresses are based on 128-bit hierarchical addressing as opposed to IPv4 with 32 bits.

	Improved packet handling: The IPv6 header has been simplified with fewer feilds.

	Eliminates the need for NAT: With such a large number of public IPv6 addresses, NAT between a private IPv4 address and a public IPv4 is not needed. This avoids some of the NAT-induced application problems experienced by applications requiring end-to-end connectivity.

IPv6 Packet Header:

	Version: This feild contains a 4-bit binary value set to 0110 that identifies this as an IP version 6 packet.

	Traffic Class: This 8-bit feild is equivalent to the IPv4 Differentiated Services (DS) field.

	Flow Label: This 20-bit feild suggests that all packets with the same flow label receive the same type of handling by routers.

	Payload Length: This 16-bit feild indicates the length of the data portion or payload of the IPv6 packet.

	Next Header: This 8-bit feild is equivalent to the IPv4 Protocol feild. It indicates the data payload type that the packet is carrying, enabling the network layer to pass the data to the appropriate upper-layer protocol.

	Hop Limit: This 8-bit feild replaces the IPv4 TTL feild. This value is decremented by a value of 1 by each router that forwards the packet.  When the counter reaches 0, the packet is discarded, and an ICMPv6 Time Exceeded message is forwarded to the sending host, indicating that the packet did not reach its destination because the hop limit was exceeded.

	Source IPv6 Address: this 128-bit feild identifies the IPv6 address of the sending host.

	Destination IPv6 Address: This 128-bit feild identifies the IPv6 address of the receiving host.

Host Forwarding Decision:

	Itself: A host can ping itself by sending a packet to a special IPv4 address of 127.0.0.1, which is refferred to as the loopback interface. Pinging the loopback interface tests the TCP/IP protocol stack on the host.

	Local Host: This is a host on the same local network as the sending host. The hosts share the same network address.

	Remote Host: This is a host on a remote network. The hosts do not share the same network address.

Host Routing Table:

	Interface List: Lists the Media Access Control (MAC) address and assigned interface number of every network-capable interface on the host, including Ethernet, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth adapters.

	IPv4 Route Table: Lists all known IPv4 routes, including connections, local network, and local default routes.

	IPv6 Route Table: Lists all known IPv6 routes, including direct connections, local network, and local default routes.

Router Packet Forwarding Decision:

	Directly-connected routes: These routes come from the active router interfaces. Routers add a directly connected route when an interface is configured with an IP address and is activated. Each of the router's interface is connected to a different network segment.

	Remote routes: These routes come from remote networks connected to other routers. Routes to these networks can be manually configured on the local router b the network administrator or dynamically configured by enabling the local router to exchange routing information with other routers using a dynamic routing protocol.
	
	Default Route: Like a host, routers also use a default route as a last resort if there is no other route to the desired network in the routing table.

Directly Connected Routing Table Entries:

	C: Identifies a directly-connected network. directly-connected networks are automatically created when an interface is configured with an IP address and activated.

	L: Identifies that this a local interface. This is the IPv4 address of the interface on the router.

	Route Source: Identifies how the network was learned by the router.

	Destination Network: Identifies the destination network and how it was learned.

	Outgoing Interface: Identifies the exit interface to use to forward a packet toward the final destination.

Remote Network Routing Table Entries:

	Routing Source: Identifies how the network was learned by the router. Common router sources include S (static route), D (Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol or EIGRP), and O (Open Shortest Path First or OSPF).

	Destination Network: Identifies the destination network.

	Administrative Distance: Identifies the administrative distance of the route source. Lower values indicate increased trustworthyness of the route source.

	Metric: Identifies the value assigned to reach the remote network. Lower values indicate preferred routes.

	Next-hop: Identifies the IP address of the next router to forward the packet.

	Route Timestamp: Identifies when the router was last heard from.

	Outgoing Interface: Identifies the exit interface to use to forward a packet toward the final destination.

A Router is a Computer:

	Branch: Teleworkers, small businesses, and medium-sized branch sites. Includes Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISR) G2 (second generation).

	WAN: Large businesses, organizations, and enterprises. Include Cisco Catalyst Series Switches and the Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR).

	Service Providers: Large service providers. Includes Cisco ASR, Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System. and 7600 Series routers.

Router Memory:

	RAM: This is volatile memory used in Cisco routers to store applications, processes, and data needed to be executed by the CPU. Cisco routers use a fast type of RAM called snchronous dunamic random access memory (SDRAM).

	ROM: This non-volatile memory is used to store crucial operational instructions and a limited IOS. Specifically, ROM is firmware embedded on an integrated circuit inside the router which can only be altered by Cisco.

	NVRAM: This is non-volatile memory is used as the permanent storage for the startup configuration file (startup-config).

	Flash: This non-volatile computer memory used as permanent storage for the IOS and other system related files such as log files, voice configuration files, HTML files, backip configurations, and more. When a router is rebooted, the IOS is copied from flash into RAM.

Connect to a Router:

	Enhanced High-speed WAN Interface Card (eHWIC) Slots: Labeled as e HWIC 0 and eHWIC 1 to provide modularity and flexibility by enabling the router to support different types of interface modules, including serial, digital subscriber line (DSL), switch port, and wireless.

	Auxiliary (AUX): RJ-45 port for remote management access similar to Console port. Now considered a legacy port as it was used to provide support for dial-up modems.

	Gigabit Ethernet: Interfaces labeled as GEO/0 and GEO/1. Typically used to provide LAN access by connecting to switches and users, or to interconnect to another router.

	Compact Flash Slots: Labled as CF0 and CF1 to provide increased storage flash space upgradable to 4 GB compact flash card per slot. By default, CF0 is populated with a 256 MB compact flash card and is the default boot location.

	Console Ports: For the initial configuration and command-line interface (CLI) management access. Two ports are available; the commonly used regular RJ-45 port and a new USB Type-B (mini-B USB) connector. However, the console can only be accessed by one port at a time.

	USB: Ports labled as USB 0 and USB 1 to provide additional storage space similar to flash.

LAN and WAN Interface:

	Console: This is a physical management port that provides out-of-band access to a Cisco device. Out-of-band access refers to access via a dedicated managment channel that is used for device maintenance purposes only.

	Secure Shell (SSH): SSH is a method for remotely establishing a secure CLI connection through a virtual interface, over a network. Unlike a console connection, SSH connections require active networking services on the device including an active interface configured with an address.

	Telnet: Telnet is an insecure method of remotely establishing a CLI session through a virtual interface, over a network. Unlike SSH, Telnet does not provide a securely encrypted connection. User authentication, passwords, and commands are sent over the network in plaintext.

	In-band Router Interfaces: Are the LAN and WAN interface configured with IP addressing to carry user traffic. Ethernet interfaces are the most common LAN connections, while common WAN connections include serial and DSL interface.

	Management Ports: Include the console and AUX ports which are used to configure, manage, and troubleshoot the router. Unlike LAN and WAN interfaces, managent ports are not used for packet forwarding user traffic.

	Serial WAN interfaces: Added to eHWIC0 and labeled Serial 0 and Serial 1. Serial interfaces are used for connecting routers to external WAN networks. Each serial interfacehas its own IP address and subnet mask, which identifies it as a member of a specific network.

	Ethernet LAN Interfaces: Labeled GE 0/0 and GE 0/1. Ethernet interfaces are used for connecting to other Ethernet-enabled devices including switches, routers, firewalls, etc. Each LAN interface has its own IPv4 address and subnet mask and/or IPv6 address and prefix, which identifies it as a member of a specific network.

Router Bootup Process:

	1.Performing POST and Load Bootstrap Program
	-During the the Power-On Self-Test, the router executes diagnostics from ROM on serveral hardware components, including the CPU, RAM, and NVRAM. After the Post, the bootstrap program is copied from ROM into RAM. The main task of the bootstrap program is to locate the Cisco IOS and load it into RAM.

	2.Locating and Loading Cisco IOS
	-The IOS is typically stored in flash memory and is copied into RAM for execution by the CPU. If the IOS  image is not located in the flash, then the router may look for it using a Trivial File Transfer Protocol server. If a full IOS image cannot be located, a limited IOS copied into RAM, which can be used to diagnose the problems and transfer a full IOS into flash memory.

	3.Locating and Loading the Configuration File
	-The bootstrap program then copies the startup configuration file from NVRAM into RAM. This becomes the running configuration. If the startup configuration file does not exit in NVRAM, the router may be configured to search for a TFTP server. If a TFTP server is not found, then the router displays the setup mode prompt.

Basic Swith Configuration Steps:

	Confiure the device name:
		-hostname

	Secure user EXEC mode:
		-line console 0
		-password password
		-login

	Secure remote Telnet / SSH access:
		-line vty 0 15
		-password password
		-login

	Secure priviledged EXEC mode:
		-enable secret password

	Secure all passwords in config file:
		-service password-encryption

	Provide legal notification:
		-banner mod delimiter message delimiter

	Configure the managemet SVI:
		-interface vlan 1
		-ip address ip-address subnet-mask
		-no shutdown

	Save the Configuration:
		-copy running-config startup-config

Configure Router Interfaces:

	Two Gigabit Ethernet Interfaces: GigabitEthernet 0/0 (G0/0) and Gigabit 0/1 (G0/1)

	A serial WAN Interface card (WIC) consisting of interfaces: Serial 0/0/0 (S0/0/0) and Serial 0/0/1 (S0/0/1)

Verify Interface Configuration:

	show ip route: Displays the context of the IPv4 routing table stored in RAM.

	show interfaces: Displays statistics for all interfaces on the device.

	show ip interface: Displays the IPv4 statistics for all interfaces on the router.

