Words and Definitions:

	Binary: A numbering system consisting of the digits 0 and 1, used by computers to perform operations.

	Bit: A single binary digit, represented by a 0 or a 1.

	Octet: One section of an IP address consisting of a group of 8 bits.

	Positional Notation: Determining a digit value based on the digit position, used in converting from one numbering system to another.

	Subnet Mask: A continuous sequence of 1 bits followed by a continuous sequence of 0 bits, used to determine the network portion of an IP address.

	ANDing: A binary process used to determine the network address of a host address by using the host address subnet mask.

	Prefix Length: The number of bits set to 1 in a subnet mask.

	Network Address: A dotted-decimal number that represents a unique IP network.

	Host Address: Any IP address in an IP network that can be assigned to an interface.

	Broadcast Address: A dotted-decimal number that represents all hosts in an IP network.

	Unicast Address: The IP address of a single host on a network.

	Multicast Address: An IP address representing a selected group of hosts.

	Public Address: An IP address that can be routed on the Internet.

	Private Address: An IP address used internally and not routed on the Internet.

	Classful Addressing: Specific ranges of IP addresses that make up classes of addresses in which the number of available network and host addresses are defined.

	Classless Addressing: IP addressing standards created in 1993 that allow address allocation based on prefix length rather than predefined class ranges.

	Hexadecimal: A base-sixteen numbering system that uses numerals 0 through 9 and letters A through F to represent binary	 numbers in more condensed form.

	IPv6 Link-local Address: An IP address that is required for every IPv6-enable network interface and that allows a device to communicate with other IPv6-enabled devices on the same link.

	Ping: A utility that sends a series of echo requests from one IP host to another IP host and that processes the echo reply messages to test connectivity between the devices.

	Traceroute: A utility that generates details about the route traveled by the data sent between two devices.

The Subnet Mask:

	IPv4 Address: Unique IPv4 address of the host.

	Subnet Mask: Used to identify the network/host portion of the IPv4 address.

	Default Gateway: Identifies the local gateway to reach remote networks.

Network, Host, and Broadcast Addresses:

	Netork Access: Address and subnet mask referto a network. All hosts within the network share the same network address. the host portion is all 0s.

	Host Addresses: Unique IP addresses assigned to hosts and devices. the host portion always contains assorted 0s and 1s but never all 0s or all 1s.

	First Host Address: First available host IP address in that network. The host portion always has all 0s and ends with a 1.

	Last Host Address: Last available host IP address in the network. The host portion always has all 1s and ends with a 0.

	Broadcast Address: A special address that communicates with all hosts in a network. For instance, when a host sends a packet to the network broadcast IPv4 address, all other hosts in the network receive the packet. The broadcast address uses the highest address in the network range. The host portion is all 1s.

IPv4 Communication:

	Unicast: The process of sending a packet from one host to an individual host.

	Broadast: The process of sending a packet from one host to all hosts in a network.

	Multicast: The process of sending apacket from one host to a selected group of hosts, possibly in different networks.

Public and Private IPv4 Addresses:

	Private Address Blocks (RFC 1918):

		-10.0.0.0/8 or 10.0.0.0 or 10.255.255.255

		-172.16.0.0/12 or 172.16.0.0 or 172.31.255.255

		-192.168.0.0/16 or 192.168.0.0 or 192.168.255.255

Special User IPv4 Addresses:

	Loopback Addresses (172.0.0.0/8 or 127.0.0.1 to 127.255.255.254): More commonly identified as only 127.0.0.1, these are special addresses used by a host to direct traffic to itself.

	Link-Local Addresses (169.254.0.0/16 or 169.254.0.1 to 169.254.255.254): More commonly known as the Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA) addresses, they are used by a Windows DHCP client to self-configure in the event that there are DHCP servers available.

	TEST-NET Addresses (192.0.2.0/24 ot 192.0.2.0 to 192.0.2.255): These addresses are set aside for teaching and learning purposes and can be used in documentation and network examples.

Legacy Class Addressing: 

	Class A (0.0.0.0/8 to 127.0.0.0/8): Designed to support extremely large networks with more than 16 million host addresses. It used a fixed /8 prefix with the first octet to indicate the network address and the remaining three octets for host addresses.

	Class B (128.0.0.0/16 - 191.255.0.0/16): Designed to support the needs of moderate to large size networks with up to approximately 65,000 host addresses. It used a fixed /16 prefix with the two high-order octet to indicate the networks address and the remaining two octets for host addresses.

	Class C (192.0.0.0/24 - 223.255.255.0/24): Designed to support small networks with a maximum of 254 hosts. it used a fixed /24 prefix with the first three octets to indicate the network and the remaining octet for the host addresses.

Assignment of IP Addresses:

	ARIN: American Registry for Internet Numbers manages and maintains IPv4 and IPv6 addresses for North America.

	RIPE NCC: Reseaux IP Europeans manages and maintains IPv4 and IPv6 addresses for Europe, the Middle East, and Central Asia.

	APNIC: Asia Pacific Network Information Center manages and maintains IPv4 and IPv6 addresses for the Asia and Pacific regions including Austrailia.

	AfriNIC: African Network Information Center manages and maintains IPv4 and IPv6 addresses for Africa.

	LACNIC: Regional Latin-America and Carribbean IP Address Registry manages and maintains IPv4 and IPv6 addresses for Latin America and Caribbean islands.

IPv4 and IPv6 Coexistence:

	Dual Stack: Dual stack allows IPv4 and IPv6 to coexist on the same network segement. Dual stack devices run both IPv4 and IPv6 protocol stacks simulataneously.

	Tunneling: Tunneling is a method of transporting an IPv6 packet over an IPv4 network. The IPv6 packet is encapsulated inside and IPv4 packet, similar to other types of data.

	Translation: Network Address Translation 64 allows IPv6-enabled devices to communicate with IPv4-enabled devices using a translation technique similar to NAT for IPv4. An IPv6	packet is translated to an IPv4 packet and vice versa.

IPv6 Address Types:

	Unicast: An IPv6 unicast address uniquely identifies an interface on an IPv6-enabled device. A source IPv6 address must be a unicast address.

	Multicast: An IPv6 multicast address is used to send a single IPv6 packet to multiple destinations.

	Anycast: An IPv6 anycast address is any IPv6 unicast address that can be assigned to multiple devices. A packet sent to an anycast address is routed to the nearest device having that address. Anycast addresses are beyond the scope of this course.

IPv6 Unicast Addresses:

	Global Unicast: A global unicast address is similar to a public IPv4 address. These are globally unique, internet routable addresses. Global unicast addresses can be configured statically or assigned dynamically.

	Link-local: Link-local addresses are used to communicate with other devices on the same link. With IPv6, the term link refers to a subnet. Link-local addresses are confined to a single link. Their uniqueness must only be confired on that link because they are not routable beyond the link.

	Unique local: Another type of unicast address is the unique local unicast address. IPv6 unique local addresses have some similarity to RFC 1918 private addresses for IPv4, but there are significant differences. Unique local addresses are used for local addressing within a site or between a limited number of sites. These addresses should not be routable in the global IPv6 and should not be translated to a global IPv6 address.

Structure of an IPv6 Global Unicat Address:

	Global Routing Prefix: The global routing prefix is the prefix, or network, portion of the address that is assigned by the provider, such as an ISP, to a customer or site. Typically, RIRs assign a /48 global routing prefix to customerers. This include everyone from enterprise bussiness networks to individual households.

	Subnet ID: The Subnet ID is used by an organization to identify subnets within its site. The larger the subnet ID, the more subnets available.

	Interface ID: The IPv6 Interface ID is equivalent to the host portion of an IPv4 address. The term interface ID is used because a single host may have multiple interfaces, each having one or more IPv6 addresses. It is highly recommended that is most cases /64 subnets should be used.

Dynamic Configuration - SLAAC:

	Network prefix and prefix length: Tells the device which network it belongs to.

	Default gateway address: This is an IPv6 link-local address, the source IPv6 address of the RA message.

	DNS addresses and Domain name: Addresses of DNS servers and a domain name.

	Prefix: Received in the RA message.

	Interface ID: Uses the EUI-64 process or by generating a random 64-bit number.

EUI-64 Process and Randomly Generated:

	EUI-64 Process: This process uses a client's 48-bit Ethernet MAC address, and inserts another 16 bits in the middle of the 48-bit MAC address to create a 64-bit interface ID.

		Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI): The OUI is a 24-bitcendor code assigned by IEEE.
		
		Device Identifier: The device identifier is a unique 24-bit value within a common OUI.

	Randomly Generated Inerface IDs: Depending upon the operating system, a device may use a randomly generated interface ID instead of using the MAC address and the EUI-64 process.

Assigned IPv6 Multicast Addresses:

	Assigned Multicast: Assigned multicast addresses are reserved multicast addresses for predefined groups of devices. An assigned multicast address is a single address used to reach a group of devices running a common protocol or service.

		FF02::1 All-nodes multicast group: This is a multicast group that all IPv6-enabled devices join. A packet sent to this group is received and processed by all IPv6 interfaces on the link or network. This has the same effect as a broadcast address in IPv4.

		FF02::2 All-routers multicast group: This is a multicast group that all IPv6 routers join. A router becomes a member of this group when it is enabled as an IPv6 router with the ipv6 unicast-routing global configuration command. A packet sent to this group is received and processed by all IPv6 routers on the link or network.

	Solicited-Node IPv6 Multicast Addresses: A solicited-node multicast address is similar to the all-nodes multicast address. the advantage of a solicited-node multicast address is that it is mapped to a special Ethernet multicast address. This allows the Ethernet NIC to filter the frame by examining the destination MAC address without sending it to the IPv6 process to see if the device is the intended target of the IPv6 packet.

ICMPv4 and ICMPv6:

	Host Confirmation: An ICMP Echo Message can be used to determine if a host is operational. The local host sends an ICMP Echo Request to a host. If the host is available, the destination responds with an Echo Reply.

	Destination or Service Unreachable: When a host or gateway receives a packet that it cannot deliver, it can use an ICMP Destination Unreachable message to notify the source that the destination or service is unreachable. The message will include a code that indicates why the packet could not be delivered.

	Time Exceeded: An ICMPv4 Time Exceeded message is used by a router to indicate that a packet cannot be forwarded because the Time to Live feild of the packet was decremented to 0. If a router receives a packet and decrements the TTL in the IPv4 packet to zero, it discards the packet and sends a Time Exceeded message to the source host. ICMPv6 does not have a TTL feild; it uses the hop limit feild to determine if the packet has expired.

ICMPv6 Router Solicitation and Router Advertisement Messages:

	Address Resolution: Address Resolution is used when a device on the LAN knows the IPv6 unicast address of a destination but but does not know its Ethernet MAC address. To determine the MAC address for the destination, the device will send an NS message to the solicited node address. The message will include the known (targeted) IPv6 address. The device that has the targeted IPv6 address will respond with an NA message containing its Ethernet MAC address.

	Duplicated Address Detection: When a device is assigned a global unicast or link-local unicast address, it is recommencded that DAD is performed on the address to ensure that it is unique. To check the uniqueness of an address, the device will send an NS message with its own IPv6 address as the targeted IPv6 address. If another device on the network has this address, it will respond with an NA message. The NA message will notify the sending device that the address is in use. If a corresponding NA message is not returned within a certan period of time, the unicast address is unique and acceptable for use.

Traceroute - Testing the Path:

	Road Trip Time (RTT): Using traceroute provides round trip time for each hop along the path and indicates of a hop fails to respond. The round trip time a packet takes to reach the remote host and for the response froom the host to return. This information can be used to locate a problematic router in the path.

